README.MD, before:

# Info

  

**Script to sync Lightroom face data to image metadata using ExifTool**

  

Based on the database schema from: ***Lightroom Classic 14.3*** analyzed as *SQLite 3 Database*

  

The usage of python and ExifTool is needed as Lightroom does not write face data to metadata nor it provides a way to export it via Plugin API.
The script queries the database for all the files with Faces and extracts all the regions as defined in Lightroom, this is done in memory. 
For every file it extracts the XMP metadata, if possible in MWG format, for the embedded metadata or the XMP sidecart .xmp file and compares the Face from database with the ones in metadata. The check to avoid duplicates is done on the name and on the region. If the Face is not present in the file it is added to the XMP metadata. The script manages flat metadata (as in .heic files) and hierarchical regions (as in .jpg files).
It adds the Face Tags to the picture Keywords and Subject and the full metadata hierarchy, separated by |, in the HierarchicalSubject of the picture if they are not present.

  

Options are:

    --catalog		            Path to Lightroom .lrcat file
    --log			            Path to save the log file - default log.txt in the same folder of the script
    --write			            Enable actual writing (default is dry-run)
    --exiftool-path                     Path to the exiftool executable - default is exiftool in the same folder of the script
    --log-level		            Set the logging level - default is 'INFO', choices are 'DEBUG', 'INFO', 'WARNING', 'ERROR', 'CRITICAL'
    --write-hierarchical-tags           Write hierarchical keyword tags to metadata
    --profile                           Enable profiling and save output to specified file (default: profile.prof)
    --batch-size                        Database query batch size (default: 1000)'

Usage Examples:


**Basic usage (dry run):**


    python optimized_script.py --catalog /path/to/catalog.lrcat

**Write mode with hierarchical keywords:**


    python optimized_script.py --catalog /path/to/catalog.lrcat --write --write-hierarchical-tags

**Performance tuning for large catalogs:**


    python optimized_script.py --catalog /path/to/catalog.lrcat --batch-size 2000 --write

**With profiling:**


    python optimized_script.py --catalog /path/to/catalog.lrcat --profile performance.prof

  
  
  


*This script is intended for educational purposes only. Use at your own risk.*
*It is recommended to backup your Lightroom catalog and images before running this script.*
*This script is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied.*
*The author is not responsible for any damage or loss of data that may occur as a result of using this script.*
   
*Copyright (c) 2025, Massimo Savazzi* 
   
*All rights reserved.*
*This script is licensed under the MIT License.*
   
  
*Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions: The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.*
*THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.*

Commit message:

Updated logging to include filename to distiguish the threads, updated multi thread

README.MD, after:

# Info

  

**Script to sync Lightroom face data to image metadata using ExifTool**

  

Based on the database schema from: ***Lightroom Classic 14.3*** analyzed as *SQLite 3 Database*

  

The usage of python and ExifTool is needed as Lightroom does not write face data to metadata nor it provides a way to export it via Plugin API.
The script queries the database for all the files with Faces and extracts all the regions as defined in Lightroom, this is done in memory> it also queries all the metadata related to faces amd its hierarchy.
For every file it extracts the XMP metadata, if possible in MWG format, for the embedded metadata or the XMP sidecart .xmp file and compares the Face from database with the ones in metadata. The check to avoid duplicates is done on the name and on the region. If the Face is not present in the file it is added to the XMP metadata. It also reads all the metadata (Subject, Keywords, HierarchicalSubject) and checks if there are no duplicates it will add the Face keywords accordingly, Keywords and Subject and the full metadata hierarchy, separated by |, in the HierarchicalSubject of the picture if they are not present.
The script manages flat metadata (as in .heic files) and hierarchical regions (as in .jpg files).

  

Options are:

    --catalog		            Path to Lightroom .lrcat file
    --log			            Path to save the log file - default log.txt in the same folder of the script
    --write			            Enable actual writing (default is dry-run)
    --exiftool-path                     Path to the exiftool executable - default is exiftool in the same folder of the script
    --log-level		            Set the logging level - default is 'INFO', choices are 'DEBUG', 'INFO', 'WARNING', 'ERROR', 'CRITICAL'
    --write-hierarchical-tags           Write hierarchical keyword tags to metadata
    --profile                           Enable profiling and save output to specified file (default: profile.prof)
    --batch-size                        Database query batch size (default: 1000)'
    --threads                           Number of threads for file operations (0 = auto-detect optimal)
    --max-threads                       Maximum number of threads to use when auto-detecting (default: 16)

Usage Examples:


**Basic usage (dry run):**


    python optimized_script.py --catalog /path/to/catalog.lrcat

**Write mode with hierarchical keywords:**


    python optimized_script.py --catalog /path/to/catalog.lrcat --write --write-hierarchical-tags

**Performance tuning for large catalogs:**


    python optimized_script.py --catalog /path/to/catalog.lrcat --batch-size 2000 --write

**With profiling:**


    python optimized_script.py --catalog /path/to/catalog.lrcat --profile performance.prof

  
  
  


*This script is intended for educational purposes only. Use at your own risk.*
*It is recommended to backup your Lightroom catalog and images before running this script.*
*This script is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied.*
*The author is not responsible for any damage or loss of data that may occur as a result of using this script.*
   
*Copyright (c) 2025, Massimo Savazzi* 
   
*All rights reserved.*
*This script is licensed under the MIT License.*
   
  
*Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions: The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.*
*THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.*
